In this video, I will show
you in more detail
the architecture
of the LSTM and
the computations that are
made inside a single cell.
As you might recall
from earlier,
in a typical LSTM,
you have a cell state,
a hidden state, input
x, and output y.
You can think of
the cell state as
the memory of your
network and gets
modified using information from
the input and the
previous hidden state.
The gates in an LSTM decide
which information is
kept or added and select
the output at every step.
You will typically
have three gates,
your forget gate used to
decide which information
is kept and which is
discarded from the
previous cell state.
The input gate that selects
the relevant information
from the input in
previous hidden state
and the output gate,
that determines which
information from
the cell state is used as
output and stored in
the hidden state.
Sigmoid activation functions
with different
trainable parameters
are applied to the input and
previous states for
the three gates.
The use of the
sigmoid ensures that
the values for the gates
are between 0 and 1.
In practice, the values
encountered in the vectors
corresponding to each gate
are very close to
either zero or one.
With a value of zero,
the gate is closed,
so information
doesn't get through.
While a value of one will
let information flow freely.
Another significant
computation made inside
an LSTM is the
candidate cell state.
To get that, you have to
transform the information
from the previous hidden
states and the current inputs.
A hyperbolic tangent
activation function
is typically used in
different implementations.
It shrinks the information
from the previous hidden states
and the current inputs to be
between negative 1 and 1.
This nonlinear transformation
has been used in
the past because it improves
training performance.
However, you could try
other activations and
test their behavior.
With the forget and input gate
and the candidate cell state,
you can update the cell state.
To get the new cell state,
you add the information from
the candidate cell state that
passes through the input gates
to the cell state information
that passes through
the forget gate.
Finally, you can compute
the new hidden state used to
produce output at a given step.
To get the new hidden state,
you pass transformed information
from the new cell state
through the output gate.
Note that here the
new cell state first
passes through a hyperbolic
tangent activation.
Nevertheless, some LSTM
architectures ignore
this information and pass
the new cell state directly
through the output gate.
Let's recap everything
I just covered.
An LSTM has three gates to
decide what information is
passed along the network.
The forget gate
decides what to keep.
The input gate decides
what to add from
the previous hidden
step and current input
and the output gate determines
the next hidden state and
the output at a given step.
You now understand the
intuition behind LSTMs.
In the coding exercise
for this week,
you'll implement
LSTMs on your own.
In the next video,
I will show you how to use
LSTMs to solve a real NLP task.
Let's go to the next video.